## Superoptimizer Aha! Experimentation

I spend some time on the readings mainly for Massalin's superoptimizer and Aha's documentation and source code from [Aha](https://github.com/dpt/Aha)'s 'distrib' branch.

Originally, I was working with Windows and ran into some compilation errors and countless warnings such as "narrowing conversions from unsigned int to int", "invalid conversion from 'int' to 'const char*'", and etc. Most of them are easy to fix. However, I switched to Ubuntu a few attempts after. Same compilation issues but got them fixed and still left with a bunch of warnings ... within the time constraint I decided to ignore them by turning off all warninings :).

I tested with existed programs and added more programs for testing. When testing with function max(), I was expected to see a solution in 4 instructions with ISA restricted to 'add', 'sub', 'or', 'and', and 'xor', but there are none with in 5 instructions (referenced to the results in the paper [Superoptimizer](https://www.brinckerhoff.org/clements/2214-csc530/Files/massalin-1987.pdf)). Eventually, I added a few more instructions including 'neg', '_not', 'cmpeq', 'cmplt', 'cmpltu' as well and found 12 solutions in 5 instructions and took about an hour. I think the solution difference comes from the limited ISA archietcture.

I also tried to add in a boolean program verifier to see how slow it can get but still in the process of trying to figure out how to express the function output in terms of boolean-logic operations on the input argument. Meanwhile I looked through the code and didn't see much pruning in simulating the instructions. I like the idea of a N-dimentional table for checking the sequences to prune and I'm thinking of another way to do this by restricting the available ISA set based on the previous instruction when selecting the current instruction. I'm not sure how this would compare to the N-dimentional table checking method. With more time, I'd like to test it out and get to know more about turning functions into boolean expressions.
